---
title: Mosfet
layout: post
nav_order: 2
parent: Hardware implementation
---

# Mosfet {#kap:mosfet}

Selecting the right switching element for the boost converter is not an
easy task; various bipolar transistors, IGBTs or
mosfets can be
used for this purpose. In this work, a suitable
mosfet is to be
selected, as it causes very low switching losses, can be switched at a
higher frequency and is very often used for this task. For the second
switching element, the Schottky diode *MBRB1060* is used. The
requirements for the boost converter to the
mosfet are as
follows:

-   Maximum load current: $I_{last}=10A$

-   Voltage of the load: $U_{DS}=40V DC$

-   Gate voltage from driver: $12V DC$

-   PWM switching frequency: $50kHz$

-   No forced air cooling

The switching element of the boost converter is switched in a
low-side-switch configuration because the load is switched via drain and
the source is connected directly to ground. This configuration requires
an N-channel mosfet so that it can be easily switched by a
PWM with ground reference.\
\
The first criterion for choosing the mosfet is its $R_{DS(on)}$ resistance. During
the switch-on phase, losses and thus heat are generated. These should
amount to a maximum of $1W$ and can thus be absorbed by most enclosure
types without active cooling. 

$$\label{eq:Rdson}
R_{DS(on)max}=\frac{P}{I^{2}}=\frac{1W}{(10A)^{2}}=10m\Omega$$

As calculated in equation \eqref{eq:Rdson}, the $R_{DS(on)}$ of the sought
mosfet must not
exceed $10m\Omega$. The design with the continuous drain current $I_{D}$
is avoided here, as this specification can be misleading. In most cases,
a mosfet is
limited by the heat generated by $R_{DS(on)}$ or the switching losses
and not by the actual continuous current. Of course, you should still
not choose an mosfet that has an $I_{D}$ less than $10A$.

The second criterion is the maximum voltage $V_{DSS}$ across drain and
source, this should be dimensioned significantly larger than is normally
present at the load, a maximum drain-source voltage of at least
$V_{DSS_{max}}= 80V$ is selected.

The third criterion is the maximum gate-source voltage $U_{GS_{max}}$.
The mosfet is to
be operated with a gate driver, which is selected in the next [section](gatedriver). The operating voltage of the gate driver
is $V_{vs}=12V$ and thus the maximum gate-source voltage should be at
least $V_{GS_{max}}=12V$.

The last criterion is the maximum gate charge $Q_{gs_{max}}$, it
describes how much charge flows into the gate when fully switched.
Smaller charges allow faster switching, so the charge is chosen to allow
the switching frequency of $f_{s}=50kHz$.


###### Mosfet characteristics {#table:mosfet}

| **Parameter**                    | **Wert**        |
|----------------------------------|-----------------|
| $V_{DSS}$                        | $100V$          |
| $R_{DS(on)}~at~V_{GS}=10V$ | $5.9m\Omega$    |
| $I_{D}$                          | $75A$           |
| $V_{GS_{max}}$                   | $\pm 20V$       |
| $Q_{GS}~at~U_{GS}=10V$         | $14nC$          |
| $R_{thJA}$                       | $40 ^\circ C/W$ |
| $R_{J}$                          | $+175 ^\circ C$ |



The N-channel mosfet [SQM70060EL](https://www.vishay.com/docs/67764/sqm70060el.pdf) from
*Vishay Siliconix* is selected, using the properties from [table](#table:mosfet) the
actual power dissipation can be calculated according to
\eqref{eq:Pmosfet}.

$$\label{eq:Pmosfet}
P = I^{2} \cdot R_{DS(on)} = (10A)^{2} \cdot 5.9m\Omega = 0.59 W$$

The question of whether the mosfet can be operated without a heat sink is
answered by calculating the expected temperature rise
\eqref{eq:mosfetTemp}, where $R_{thJA}$ corresponds to the thermal
resistance to ambient air.

$$\label{eq:mosfetTemp}
\Delta T = P \cdot R_{thJA} = 0.59W \cdot 40^\circ C/W = 23.6 ^\circ C$$


At room temperature of $25^\circ C$, this gives an operating
temperature of $25^\circ C + 23.6^\circ C = 48.6^\circ C$ which is
far below the maximum operating temperature of $R_{J}=+175 ^\circ C$
and thus no heat sink is required.

Another question is whether the mosfet can be switched at the frequency of
$f_{s}=50 kHz$ without the gate capacitance slowing down the switching
too much. At $V_{GS}=12V$, the maximum gate charge $Q_{G}=100nC$ is
assumed so that the rise time can be calculated according to
\eqref{eq:mosfetrise}. The maximum current of the gate driver
$I_{gate}=360mA$ is included in the equation.

$$\label{eq:mosfetrise}
t_{auf}=\frac{Q_{G}}{I_{gate}}=\frac{100nC}{360mA} = 277.8 ns$$

If it is assumed that the descent time also corresponds to
$t_{ab}=277.8ns$, then the total switching time is approximately
$t_{switch}=2\cdot t =555.6ns$ for the mosfet, which corresponds to a frequency of
$f_{switch}=1/t=1.6Mhz$.\
\
The switching frequency $f_{s}$ has a period of $t_{s}=20\mu s$. If the
switching time is subtracted from this $t_{s}-t_{switch}= 19.45\mu s$,
this results in a percentage of the pure switching time of $1\%$. This
means that switching accounts for only a fraction of the time, while
keeping the switching losses small and the switching frequency $f_{s}$
can be used with the mosfet.
