---
title: Photovoltaics
layout: post
nav_order: 1
parent: Basics
---

## Photovoltaics

Photovoltaic technology has made increasing progress towards cheaper and
more efficient modules in recent years. One challenge in the application
of solar modules is the degradation of their performance due to
environmental influences. Factors such as temperature, irradiation and
shading play a decisive role. These influences can significantly affect
the performance of the module and thus represent a major problem that
must be taken into account in the development of photovoltaic systems.
One concept for describing the properties of a [pv]{acronym-label="pv"
acronym-form="singular+short"}-module is the [iu]{acronym-label="iu"
acronym-form="singular+short"}-characteristic line, it shows the current
on the y-axis and the voltage on the x-axis and thus provides
information about the behaviour of the module under different
environmental influences, irradiation and shading.

![image](import/iu-kennlinie.pdf){width="0.8\\linewidth"}
[]{#fig:ui-kenn1 label="fig:ui-kenn1"}

Figure [\[fig:ui-kenn1\]](#fig:ui-kenn1){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:ui-kenn1"} shows the characteristic curve of an ideal PV
module. From this it can be seen that the behaviour of current to
voltage is not linear and there must be a point on the characteristic
curve from which the product of current and voltage is maximum. This
point is called the [mpp]{acronym-label="mpp"
acronym-form="singular+short"} and should be the operating point from
which the maximum power is obtained. How to set this operating point is
described in the [\[kap:leistung\]](#kap:leistung){reference-type="ref"
reference="kap:leistung"} chapter of the power adjustment. Furthermore,
the current is almost constant over a wide range, which is why the solar
cell is also called a current source.

